# shopping-behavior

This project aims to use data to get a better understanding of the American market by analyzing the shopping behavior of consumers. We do this by analyzing a sample dataset through descriptive statistics and through the use of data visualizations. The goal of this project is to discover the seasonality of shoppers, understand which demographics buy the most and finally to better understand which market outreach strategies we can apply to maximize purchases.

## Observations 

This project was used to get a better understanding of the American market by analyzing shopping behavior using shopping data. The workflow of this project involved the usage of jupyter notebooks where we explored, transformed and analyzed our dataset. Through our visualizations we discovered that the state with the most amount of shoppers was California while the state with the least amount of shoppers was Hawaii. We also discovered that the typical shopper is around the age of 30 and less of our shoppers are on the older side, they become less likely as we pass 60 years of age. Another observation was the fact that Purchase Amount (USD) was observed as a bimodal distribution due to the fact that promo codes were applied to purchases. After exploring and transforming our data we performed a t-test between promo-code and non-promo-code users. Our null hypothesis was that there was no difference in the dollar amount spent between promo-code and non-promo-code users. It was discovered that because the p-value observed was less than 0.05 we reject the null hypothesis in favor of the alternative hypothesis and say that there is a difference in the dollar amount spent between promo-code and non-promo-code users. The next actions we can take to further investigate this dataset is build a machine learning model using our dataset. This machine learning model can be used to predict the purchase amount that we would expect the user to spend based on attributes like Age, Gender, Location, Season, Previous Purchase and other attributes. This model can give us a better understanding on how these attributes affect the Purchase Amount. 